---
date: 2016-07-16
title: Independence
draft: false
tags: ["life"]
---

The following is a story about my dad's iron fist and how he guided me to complete independence at a tender age of 18 and what I did about it.
 
"When you turn 18, you're on your own," my dad had told me time and time again ever since I was old enough to begin worrying about college. He had told me that he would support me financially enough only to satisfy my school tuition. I was 14 when he told me that for the first time. And just like any other 14-year-old kid teen, I brushed it aside and optimistically told myself that I would be fine and worry about it when the time came. And when I turned 18 and went off to college, he really did keep his word about only paying for my tuition and from that point and on, I was really on my own.

This "on your own" thing meant that I had to find housing, food on my own and finance it independently. I had nobody else to rely on but my friends at times. Either I find means of making money, or I starve. The first challenge for me came during spring break. My school was about to close within a few days for a week-long of spring break and I had no clue as to where I would stay and how I would be able to eat. When I had called my dad and asked for advice, he told me that it was my own responsibility, and not his. I was so angry and in despair at the time that I outright hung up on him. I was 18 at the time and that was when I finally realized the reality of having to survive on my own. "How the hell was I supposed to find housing and food in a few days?" My friends all had places to go, with their parents to finance them. The friends I made in college would go home. My international friends would either travel in the states or also visit home. My high school friends all had some sort of plan that either involved their parents paying for a trip somewhere or staying at their college, which I could not because my public university closed down over breaks. The feeling that I had when I realized all of that is something I will never forget.

After settling down with the realization that I was really on my own, I needed to put together a plan. I weighed the options. I looked at Airbnb rentals, I looked at houses and apartments around the area on Facebook and craigslist, I weighed the option of living at a relatives or family friends place. Each of these options would required me to work to pay off the living expenses and someway to obtain food without having a car. I couldn't just possibly live at a friend's relatives place or family friends for free. I would have to work for them or work and pay them  for the rent. However I had no car so I would have to find other means of transportation to commute to and from work. In the end, an idea struck me and that was to see if my any of my friends' colleges didn't close over the break and if I could stay with them. As it happened to be, one of my friends who is attending Berklee College of Music in Boston had space for me in his dorm. I am extremely grateful that he was able to provide a place for me to stay for the week. Without him, I can't think of anywhere else that I could have stayed.

If that experience was enduring enough, the real challenge appeared when summertime came around the corner. This time I didn't just need to find a place to live for one week. I had to find somewhere to stay for four months! This meant finding housing, a sustainable job, and methods of feeding myself. Those three things are the only things that really mattered. Being able to see my friends? That thought wasn't even in my head at the time. With some advice from my parents, I came up with three primary plans.
    1.  Get an internship and relocate to wherever my internship was
    2.  Ask a family friend or relative if I could stay with them and find a job nearby so I could pay them.
    3.  Take summer classes and live at my universities' summer housing.
 
They were adequate plans but when I really sat down to look at them, I came to the realization that there were just so many problems. How would I commute to work without a car? Where would I even find a job? Why would pay for my summer housing? In the end, something magical happened and I didn't end up following any of the three plans.
My computer science professor for the spring semester was hiring an intern to help him out with a personal hardware business and I was picked for the job. I replied to his e-mail soon after he sent out his job offer to the class. and I sent him my qualifications. It was only after I met with him that he said that I would also be able to stay in a guest room in his house because I had nowhere else to go. Being independent meant that I wasn't bounded to any place. I could live wherever I wanted and so that was an advantage that I had over some other candidates who could not live in Amherst or would be forced to commute.

It turns out that it wasn't being the top of my class that got me the job. It was the simple fact that I my professor recognized me by name because I had attended his office hours more frequently than the others. I wasn't the one of the top seven in the class who received an A+ in the class and received citations because of that. I wasn't even in the top 53 in the class who received As. I was merely a student who attended more office hours and made an attempt to talk to my professor after and out of the classroom and answer and ask questions in class. I always sat in the middle of the 2nd row and was always one of the first students there. Though I wasn't the smartest, I had the diligence and trusted myself that I would always do the right thing. I was picked for the sole fact that I was the only name that my professor recognized out of the countless e-mails he received.
 "you can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backward. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something — your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life." - Steve Jobs

In retrospect, if I had attempted to achieve a higher grade by relying only on myself and skipping the office hours, or if I had sat in class and scrolled through Facebook, I wouldn't be where I am right now. Each choice that I made was a dot and now that I am living comfortably with my professor, I can say that I have once again my choices have not let me down.

Note: I am in no way promoting trading self-studying for office hours or saying that grades are not important. All I am saying is to make the best of your situation and to trust in your choices. Additionally, office hours and sitting at the front of class are both easy and great opportunities to get to know your professors.

Final Thought: Independence and responsibility for oneself can't really be taught. It can only be learned through truly experiencing it. I think that my parents have enough trust and faith in me to survive on my own and are confident in their ability to guide me and for that , I am extremely grateful.
