---
date: 2016-05-18
title: I Don't Have a Passion. Yet.
draft: false
tags: ["passion", "life"]
---

What is your passion?
 
I was asked this question by my professor nonchalantly while having a light conversation. It seemed like a simple question at first. However, after deeply thinking about it, I realized that I did not have an answer. I answered with "well, I'm passionate about a lot of things. I'm passionate about the environment, and about other things." Compared to him, I wasn't even really passionate about the environment. It was probably just an interest. It was barely an answer. I continued to think about that as the days flew by.

This evening, as I stumbled upon a TED talks playlist called: Talks to watch when you don't know what to do with your life, and since I had nothing better to do, I decided to just watch the first one. It was tilted: Why you will fail to have a great career by Larry Smith, an economist. I didn't want to watch it at first. Being the optimistic kind of guy that I am, I had no doubt that my career wouldn't fail, therefore watching it would be a waste of my time. However, my curiosity got the better of me and just watched it.

What was really inspiring was that it also talked about passion. It reminded me of the chat that I had with my professor. He talked about how most peoples' careers fail because of a lack of passion. People with passion in the field that your in will always be more successful. You may earn more than them if you put enough of your time into it, but enjoy doing what they do, while you will still be searching for your life's purpose.

The more I thought about it, the more I drove myself into a dead end. I didn't really have anything that I was passionate about. I enjoyed doing almost everything from a young child. I enjoyed playing all the sports, found them all to have different aspects that I was really passionate about, and to this day, I still enjoy a large variety of topics. I may be a computer scientist in school, but outside of school, I'm passionate about the arts, music, literature and humanitarian subjects. I enjoy writing in my free time, reading, and reading some more. I find interest in all sorts of stuff and I always have an insatiable curiosity to learn more, no matter what it is.  Whenever I travel, I enjoy engaging in conversations with strangers, genuinely curious to learn more about them and what they do. And the more I thought about it, the more I began to realize. What if a passion can be anything? What if your passion doesn't have to be one particular field or activity? What if a passion can be learning? One way that my professor defines a passion is something that you are willing to do for the rest of your life. There is nothing that I would be willing to do for the rest of my life, except learning. I can't just do one thing. coding? writing? reading? philosophy? economics? math? no way. Although the one problem that I now realize is that learning as a passion does not make any money. Well, directly that is. Indirectly however, it could generate income based on my knowledge and skills that I develop through learning.

Or maybe I just haven't found my passion yet. That is an entirely other possibility. Based on my past and how well I know myself, I don't think that I will find a distinct one. But who knows? Anything's possible, right?
 
A bit of a background about my professor: Not only is he a professor, he has a side-hobby/business. He creates open-source hardware. It started off as a hack to solve a home problem, but after he posted it onto his blog, it got a lot more attention. People began asking him if the product was for sale, so he decided to turn it into a business. He tells me that he only does it because it makes him happy and that he is passionate about it. If it was just for the money, he wouldn't have done it. He works on it everyday throughout the summer, and doesn't view it as work. Since he is helping make people's lives around the world easier, he takes additional enjoyment in that. This is what I call passion. And this is what many people also would call success.
