---
title: "$100,000 in Annual Revenue?!"
date: 2016-09-15T00:14:49-04:00
showDate: true
draft: true
tags: ["blog", "story"]
---

The University of Michigan, also known as UMich, U of M, or simply Michigan, is objectively a great school. But, as with everything in life, it has its pros and cons. In my two and a half years at Michigan, I hope to end my college career with a solid reflection on my time at Michigan, including their Computer Science and Data Science programs, as well as offer some advice for asprining Wolverines.

As I've mentioned before, I want to write blog posts with better quality than quantity, so I will only highlight the most important things to me. This is not a comprehensive list of takeaways, pros, and cons by any means. Also, more importantly, your individual experienc will most likely differ a lot from mine unless you have similar interests and personality as me, in which case this can actually be quite useful to you.

Biggest takeaways (general):

-   If you are going to be living off-campus, I highly suggest in a house with a couple of other people/friends near the north-west side of campus, near liberty and state st. Having lived and visited friends who have lived on almost every part on campus, I think the best place is near my current place on E William St. Within a block, their are tons of bars, boba shops, axe throwing (yeah, axe throwing) venues, bike shop, gelato, \$1 pizza, restaurants, barbers, pharmacies, convenience stores, and more. It's also within a 5 minute walk to a bus stop. It also becomes easier to build social capital if you live near a central part of campus because it becomes easier to have guests over.
-

Pros:

-   Great bar and restaurant scene. If you are of age/have the funds, the bar and restaurant scene here is absolutely amazing. There are hundreds of bars and amazing restaurants in Ann Arbor. The flip side is that U of M is also a food desert. The club scene is pretty bad though. I believe most people just head to frats for partying.
-   Great athletic scene and unmatched school spirit. During gameday on central campus, everybody will be wearing either Maize or Blue. It was quite a sight to see this when I first transferred here. I've worn Michigan shirts on other continents and have had people yell "Go Blue". This spirit extends far and wide by giving you a very tightly-knit alumni network, even with over 5 million alum. I've made cold calls to Michigan alum in industry and academia by reaching out to them on LinkedIn and not a single one of them has ignored me. Last year, we were in the Frozen Four in college hockey, Final Four in college basketball, and Final four in college football.
-   Extremely talented and smart people. The list would go on and on. The calibre students here are top-notch. I personally know people who have gotten into PhDs at MIT, Master's at Stanford, dropped out to work at a YC companies, and too many people to keep track of who are now working at Facebook. Some famous tech Alum include CEO of Twilio, ex-CEO of Twitter, Co-Founder and CEO of Google Larry Page, Joy, creator of Vim and C, and many more.

Cons:

-   A bit cold. Just a bit. Tip: get a pair of gloves, a hat, a scarf/balaclava, a down jacket, wool socks and warm/waterproof boots. It's 100% neccesary unless you enjoy being cold.
-   Food desert. There are no grocery stores within a mile radius of campus. My suggestions are to share an Instacart account with a couple of friends if you are living off campus, or make occasional trips to Costco for bulk goods by using the Maven car rental service.
-

Computer Science Program

Pros

-   The quality of instruction for most clasess is quite extraordinary. Compared to the University of Massachusetts, Amherst at least, you can tell that the professors here really put in a lot of time into teaching. Professors' primary job is doing research, not teaching, yet you can tell that many of them love teaching and advising students. Some obvious examples (not comprehensive) are Professor Chris Peikert, Professor Peter Chen, Professor Jenna Wiens, Lecturer David Paoletti, and Lecturer Andrew DeOrio. I don't know why this is the case, but if you want excellent professors, Michigan is a great place to be.
-   Very organized and well-thought out classes. After having taken classes at UMass Amherst, and coming here, I realized that the classes at UMass Amherst were all over the place. What I mean by this is that the core curriculum didn't seem to be "core" and the classes seemed to teach material that wasn't entirely "core" to CS, but a selection of things that the Professor had a predilection for. For example, a core class at UMass was Programming Methodology. In this class, I remember learning Scala and about functional programming as well as stuff like lambda calculus. I don't see how this class is core. It seemed like it should've been more of a CS elective course than anything. Michigan on the other hand, has half the number of core classes, a class on C/Assembly, and a class on Computation/Complexity theory.
-   Rigor. The rigor and workload of the classes at Michigan are very high, especially for classes such as EECS 381 Object-Oriented Programming and EECS 482 Operating Systems. They are so high in fact that it is normal for students to take become a part time student and only take EECS 381 during a semester. EECS 482 also had such a high workload that they've introduced a 6-credit version to replace the old 4-credit EECS 482 curriculum. It takes time to become a good at a craft, so this can help you do so.
-

Cons:

-   Many schools have this flaw. Larger class sizes mean that it is difficult to get attention, and if you are a shyer person, you may find it hard to ask questions in a large lecture hall. Even though this is the case, some professors try their best to get to know everybody. For example, Professor Peter Chen of EECS 482 Operating Systems learned everybody's names by heart and invited everybody to his house for Thanksgiving dinner.
-   You can't bypass EECS prerequisties. Period. I know for a fact that I was enrolled in a graduate level CMPSCI class at UMass Amherst during my 2nd semester sophomore year. One of my friends, Joe Breda, took a graduate level distributed systems class at UMass during his junior year by bypassing the prerequsite.
-   It is essentially impossible to transfer EECS credits.
-   Graduate level courses don't count towards your undergraduatie graduation requirements. You can take EECS 545, the graduate level version of Machine Learning, but it won't count towards your graduation requirements. At UMass, you would be able to.
-   Grade deflation. Unlike Harvard and Stanford (from what I heard from students that do CS there), it is quite difficult to get all As at Michigan. You are graded on a curve (like virtually every course in college), but the percentage of As in a given class varies by class. When I took EECS 281 over the spring semester, only 5% of the class recieved an A, and 10% received an A-. Even though the median scores for the exams were in the 50s and I recieved a raw 91 score, the curve wasn't strong enough to boost me to an A. This happened because although the number of As were reduced from previous semesters, the median remained the same. In statistical language, the normal distribution had a higher variance. However on the plus side, this means that if you do get straight As, it is a very strong signal for your work ethic and academic intelligence. If you can get As in classes such as EECS 482, you should be very proud of yourself. On the other hand, if you don't get an A, don't feel too bad. Michigan tries to push you academically. This does mean that you may have to less time to commit to non-academic activities such as part-time jobs, startups, clubs, athletics, research, etc. It can be done, but you will have less time than if you went to say, Harvard or Stanford where there try to push you to do more extracurriculars than to spend all of your time on classes by inflating your grades. (I'm not saying anything about the difficulty of the classes, just your grade. The amount of work/diffuclty may be the similar or even higher, but it is definitely easier to get a higher GPA). In fact, the median GPA for an engineering student at Michigan is a 3.4.
-   No diversity. I was talking to my friends the other day and I realized that there was virtually no diversity in the student body here in terms of ethnicity. Everybody we see in EECS is either some kind of East Asian, Indian, or Caucasian. Only three African Americans during my 2.5 years at Michigan come to mind and I know of no Latinos. I do see and interact with plenty of girls, though.

Biggest takeaways:

-   If Professor Chris Peikert is teaching a class, take it. Although most people hate EECS 376 (Foundations of Computer Science), it was one of my favorite classes and I believe it is almost 100% because of how great of a instructor Chris Peikert is.
-   Take EECS 482 if you are serious about software engineering. This is currently the hardest class offered at the undergraduate level at the University of Michigan, but it is 100% worth it. I personally think it should be a required course to graduate with a CS degree from Michigan. It's more about the concepts that you learn by doing the projects and studying for the exams and understanding material from class than random facts that you memorize (virtuall none.) You know this has to be true because the exams could be open-book and you it wouldn't help you at all. Other classes such as EECS 485 and EECS 376, require either a great deal of memorization of random facts, or copying the facts down onto a "cheat sheet" (which is a piece of paper with any notes you want to put onto it) that you can use during the exams.
-   Don't neccesarily take EECS 376 last as most people might tell you. Although most of the material isn't quite useful for recruiting (getting software engineering internships), the algorithms section and especially the section on dynamic programming was very helpful to mastering many programming questions such as the hard questions on LeetCode. It was common for us to work on writing the recurrence relations for LeetCode hard questions in class, on homeworks and exams. Once you can come up with the recurrence relation, it becomes almost trivial to code up an answer to the dynamic programming question.
-   Try to take advantage of everything that Michigan has to offer. This advice is universal. I think it's a huge waste if you go to college, on-campus, only to focus all of your time on classes. It may be worth it to 0.0001% of students to focus 100% of their time in college on getting As, A+s, in all of their classes, but to most people it's definitely not worth it. One of the biggest reasons for this is law of diminishing marginal returns. I remember one semester I tried very hard to get As in my clasess by spending 100% of my time on school and I still didn't get all As. Whereas, I've had semesters where I get a 3.4 or 3.8 semester GPA while doing research, training for a marathon, running a club, and having a social life. Not only do I think this will make you more successful (again for most people), but more importantly, a more happy healthy human being.
